So our application doesn't look too bad.
We can certainly do some things here.
Now one thing we can't really do at the moment is add a new place.
Now one important note at this point whilst we can of course add everything we need to add a new place.
So the four main puts ends on what will not build at this point of course is a real functionality to
add a new place to the list of places here for the simple reason that we have no back end yet where
we could store that new place.
Now we could absolutely use something like read X to manage application wide state in our front end
app here and they offer manage our places locally in the browser.
But this is not what we need later in the course.
There we don't want to manage all our data just locally in the browser.
Instead we want to manage it on a server to also share it with our users and not just have it on our
machine on our running instance of the react app.
So therefore I will add the add place functionality now but will not wire it up to our list of places
because here in our code of course we only have a dummy list of places any ways right.
We have the dummy places here and for now will not add any functionality to managers application wide
because as I mentioned we'll do this on a server later.
Nonetheless let's work on the new plays page here and let's make sure that we actually can add a new
place so that we do have all the inputs for that and that we can at least get to the point where we
would be ready to send the plays off to a server.
For that we need to build a forum in New place.
I want to return a form here instead of age to tech and on that form I'll add a class name of place
dash form you can of course use any class you want in there.
I don't want have a couple of inputs and also a submit button indeed.
Now 40 inputs we could of course use the regular H2 male inputs and combine that with let's say label
components.
But I want to create my own component which combines both.
And that's important which also has built in user input validation.
My idea is that we have some kind of input component which you could use like this and that on this
input component we can configure it.
We can give it a type of text for example we can give it a label of title and we can also add a validators
property which should take an array of predefined validation rules which will also have to create.
So quite a complex component which does not just render some visuals to the screen but which as I just
said also has some built in logic for validating user input and so on.
So did it by the end when this component is finished.
We have on change prop there which triggers a function on every keystroke and gives us not just the
input not just the text the user entered but also some information whether that input is valid so that
we have the validation built into the inputs and we don't have to do it here in this new place component
that's again this idea of splitting code and of outsourcing things so step by step.
Let's first of all build a simple input which just outputs something visually and then later as a next
step let's add the validation as a last step will then also add validation to the entire form where
I basically want to sum up the different validation results of the individual inputs and decide whether
the overall form is valid or not but that will be the last step.
So let's go to form elements then and in there let's add a new input.
J is file input C as as file to add well this component I was just talking about and that is that this
will be a complex component so we'll spend some time on it.
We start simple though.
We import react from react here and then we have our input component which receives some props and which
will have some logic in there and we export this.
And of course we should also import the C S S styling here.
So slash input see as s also a little side note at this point there are third party libraries like formic
which you can use and react to get form functionality for free.
So to say so to simply installed at Library and then you can set up forums and form inputs with it and
use that to handle validations on you could absolutely do that and you can look into solutions like
that.
But in my courses I'm always a big fan of teaching the topic at hand in death.
And I find it very interesting to see how form validation could be set up on your own and how you could
build quite a sophisticated form input system without any third party library and therefore that is
what we'll do here.
Back to our input component though here.
I now want to return some J is X and J is X we do return here will be a death which groups to gather
a label and an input and on that death I want to assign some dynamic class names form control which
will always be there but in addition I also want to be able to later add some dynamic class so a class
which will not always be added based on the validity of the input so that we can for example color the
label and the input field red if it's invalid for now we'll just have form control there but we'll add
more later instead of the div we now need a label element and there I want to output the text which
is received on the label prop of our custom component and they are all also add H to metal for props
I.D..
This here is basically D for attributes you have on a normal label as well justice as a class attribute
for is a keyword in javascript.
So here in J is X we can't use it and hence we have aged him out for which will be translated to that
regular four attribute.
Once this is rendered to the DOM well and then I expect to get some I.D. Why are props and I passed
this to aged him out for then here I want to render the actual input and dare I want to be flexible.
This input component should be able to render our regular input but also a text area so to cater for
both.
I will take a step back here and create an element let's say element constant and the content of that
depends on let's say element prop where we can decide from outside which kind of element we want to
render and if the element prop holds a value of input then element.
So this element constant here will store input element.
Otherwise it will store a text area like this.
Now of course we need to configure both now the input here will receive some props the idea for example
props I.D. and also the type prop stored type so that we can decide from outside which type of input
we create.
Text No.
And so on.
We also might want to be able to set a placeholder text with props place holder and that's it for now
we'll add more later but for the moment that is it all in the text area.
We also can set the I.D. off this element and we also might want to be able to set the rows from outside
so we can set this to props rows or to a default of free lets say with this fallback value in case the
rows prop is not defined now for the moment that's it below the label we can now output the element.
So here.
Dynamic expression because I'm referring to a javascript expression here I'm outputting the value of
element after all and the value of element is either input or text area.
So that's getting rendered down there.
With that we have a very simple input or a form control setup.
Now it's all the time for some styling and for that attached you find that input see us as file where
you can just paste the content into this input see us as file and you will also find a new place see
us as file where you can paste your content in and make sure that in New Place J.S. you import that
new place see us as file of course and this will ensure that the entire form is styled properly.
Now a new place J us we can also import the input component now so import input from and then let's
go to the shared folder components form elements input and this should therefore work.
Now let's see if it works and for Dad we'll need to specify one extra thing here.
Keep in mind that in our newly added input component we require the element prop to render even an input
or the text area.
So if we don't specify it will always render a text area but if we don't want the text area we have
to add an element prop and set this value to input.
So here in the new place component I will add element and set this to input here with Dad if we save
this we get this simple form not super amazing but a good starting point of course at the moment there
is no built in validation or anything like that.
So before we add more and more inputs let's actually focus on that built in logic and validation part.